---
title: "Aldiction Game"	
date: 2018-11-11
tags: [teste1,teste2,teste3]
excerpt: "teste1, teste2, teste3"
mathjax: "true"
---



Supose a game for two players, were you recieve 80$ and the other player 20$. 
The objective is simple -- You have 100 chocolate bars to buy and you want to buy as much 
as possible more than your friend. But there is three rules to buy:

1. Each time step both players needs to try to buy one chocolate bar, and you have to play until you spend your money totally. 

2. In order to try to buy one chocolate bar you need to spend $$\Delta m$$. 

3. You can't choose the chocolate bar. You can only pick one randomly in each time step and 
if that bar was already choosed before, by you or your opponent, you lose your $$\Delta m$$.

Since you have much more money than your opponent, you probably will be able to buy more chocolate
than him. Is this true no matter $$\Delta m$$? The naive reasoning let you believe that in the end of the game,
if you add the total amount of chocolates bought, 80% will be yours and only 20% will stay for your friend. 

However, things are not so simple. Imagine the case when $$\Delta m \to 0$$. At this point, you and 
your friend virtualy will have the same purchace power. Therefore, in the end you will get 50% of the chocolate,
just like your frient, which is not good for you. 

For the other extreme you can only go for $$\Delta m = 80$ $$. At this point, you can buy one chocolate bar
and your friend none. This is good for you, but this is probably not the best. How much more you can 
buy then your friend in function of $$\Delta m$$? The precise answer is,

$$100 (e^{-0.4/\Delta m} - e^{-1/\Delta m})$$

 
You can easily simulate this, and check by your self that this formula correcly fits 
the average of a couple matches. We show in the figure bellow the simulations and 
the behaviour of the difference of your chocolates $$C_y$$ and the opponent $$C_o$$.

<!--INSERT FIGURE HERE -->


But what about a more generic game? If you have $$N$$ chocolate bars, and you get 
$$m_y$$ money, against $$m_o$$ of your opponent. The difference is,


$$N (e^{-2m_o/(N \Delta m)} - e^{-(m_y+m_o)/(N \Delta m)})$$


I will not demonstrate this formula now, but if you are really curious you can go 
to the supplementary material of this [paper](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0201654).  







<!--# H1 opa-->

<!--## H2 opa-->

<!--### H3 opa-->

<!--opaopaoapoapoapaopoap.-->

<!--here is some *italics*. -->

<!--asjkahsj **opaopaopa** hdasjdha.-->

<!--heheheh:-->
<!--* 111-->
<!--+ 222-->
<!--- 333-->

<!--Python code block:-->

<!--```python-->
<!--		import numpy as np-->
<!--		def test_function(x,y):-->
<!--			z = np.sum(x,y)-->
<!--			return z-->
<!--```-->

<!--math:-->

<!--$$x^3=y^3+z^3$$-->




